I've been doing the 'Making Secrets' posts on Tuesdays for the last few months, but I'm going to put them on hold for a while... the reason is simple, I've documented up to the end of EP2... and I've not finished V1.666, so I've really said all I can for now... Secrets will come back once V1.666 is out, and I can document the whole project, but for now I'm going to do a little blog instead!

This will not cover the ongoing Gamedev... which I'll continue to do in the Sunday Update posts... instead I'll be covering the other Retrogaming projects I'm working on (Mainly the tutorials), and anything retro-computing or gaming related I think you'll be intrested in!

So what am I up to! well a lot!

So as you know, GameDev is taking about 15 hours a week, and I'm also doing the Z80 tutorials...The tutorials are taking around 5 hours of coding and documentation, 4 hours of recording and editing, and a couple of hours for the subtitles... I'm always working 'ahead' on these tutorials, so I have unfinished stuff waiting in the wings for future lessons.. in the short term I'm planning to progress the tutorials into making a super simple 'text adventure' (By super simple, it'll have two rooms!), so we're going to do string reading, and word identification!...

Oh, and I'm adding the Sam Coupe to the tutorials Mix (another weird Z80 system!), I've got the hello world working on it, and that's all I need at this stage!... the Sam' was an idea by a user on Youtube, It looks a cool system, and I've managed to get it working like all the other systems I'm covering -to get a working disk image on it I actually had to modify some open source SAM diskwriting software using my super-rusty C skills, but it means I've got a 'OnceClick BuildAndRun' script for the Sam Coupe too!... of course I'll make it part of the downloadable z80 devkit soon...

For your reference, I'm not planning to port ChibiAkumas to it... it's screen uses 24k rather than 16k, and it's memory banking is more limited than the Enterprise, so it would be a harder port, but I may support it for any future games!

I'm aiming to do a tutorial every week for the next 12 months, and even if I don't die of exhaustion I have another problem... I'm slightly worried I may run out of things I can actually teach people!

So I'm pre-emting this problem with two new big projects... I've started learning 6502 Assembly (C64, BBC) and 68000 Assembly (Atari ST,Amiga,x68000)!!! 

My target is to get to the point where I am reasonably competent at these so I can start doing tutorials on either of these by 2019... I would start on 6502 first... then progress to 68000, but it should make for some interesting content if I can do it!... just to be clear, I don't plan on developing any serious games on either of these platforms (I'm not porting ChibiAkumas to either of these systems - it would be a total rewrite)... I want to focus on the Z80 for my serious gamedev, but I'm hoping diversifying into the other 'retro processors' can give me a niche to cover on my Youtube channel!

