With the planned changes made, I started coding the levels

The first level was to have a forest theme, I wanted the first level to be based on toy soldiers and a robin hood / king arthur type theme. This time the game engine could manage a passible forest design. I started designing the enemies, and I wanted there to be some 'steampunk' type 'psuedo modern' machinery, so I armed many of the soldiers with 'machine guns'bow and arrows, and baloons and hang-gliders....

The larger enemies were made up of 'enchanced animals' - I like the idea that a medievil technology would modify vicous animals and use them as weapons, such as the flying shark, , spinning 4-snake and dog launcher

The first level used some significant new tricks of the Animators - the rocket launcher object would fire a rocket object, which would explode into stars, and show an explosion object - this was a complex animation pattern which would have been impossible with the original.

The level 1 boss was the 'Trojan Bunny CombatTank' - this was supposed to be based on the Monty Python Trojan Rabbit, crossed with the tall thin tanks in Metal Slug. I wanted to try to make an enemy pretty much the full height of the screen... Also I used the 4 frame animation to allow for animation of the 'tyre tracks'

EP2 introduced 'unlockable achievements' - and the Level1 unlock was achievend by shooting the ears off the Bunnytank!



The second level was the fantasy level - and it gave me some fun designing the characters! Working out enemies for level 1 was pretty tough, but with level 2 I could easily come up with some plenty quirky stuff! 
A lot of enemies were jokes, the fairy that was a pixelated sprite. 'Munky Bong' was a parody of a certain gaming company! 
Again many of the new enemies used the new animation code The 'Coding bug' which spits out decrease life commands - and the witch that thows cats - all used the 'object spawning' code

The second level unlock was to shoot all the 'Icky Musume' squid characters (A rip off of a certain anime characters) - they were going to be statues, hence why they don't move or attack - but I didn't have the color palette to make them grey.

The last boss was the 'Magical Girl' Sakuys - and I used some special tricks with the background! I wrote alternative animation routines that allowed the background to scroll super fast and in the opposite direction. This used some very complex animation - the 'heart shield' tracked the main enemy sprite, it spawned a burst of heart objects (a first for the game) and used 'track to destination' movement - there were quite a few versions where bugs caused the enemy to go offscreen and never come back!