I had a special trick up my sleeve for Level 5... the first game had a vertical scrolling level, and level 5 would scroll up, but this time with a twist! as the game engine could handle bullets firing in any direction, there was no reason the players couldn't shoot up and down, it just meant reprogramming the player key reading, and sprite drawing.

Unfortunately, that's not to say the coding was done, and rewriting the routines without them getting much larger in size, and allowing them to use 4 spritebanks was a considerable challenge (all to keep the game working on 64k)... but eventually I got it workinkg!

The game uses an odd fire configuration in this '4-direction mode' - one fire button is 'normal fire' shoots in the direction the player is moving, the other is 'locked fire' and shoots in the same direction as when 'Normal fire' was last pressed... I find it quite satisfatory, but I'm not aware of any other games that used it, and I know there were a lot of unplayable 'twin stick' games on 2 fire systems, so I wonder whether this method was used before or not.

Movement aside, the last level was supposed to be a 'Mixture' of all the other 4 levels... I upgraded the background animation again, giving it a parallax effect... for the enemies, I tried to 'mix up' the previous enemies, and it finally gave me a chance to use some old sprites that got left out of the first game... I also brought back 'NicoHime' (the girl who gets her head cut off in the first game's intro'... so I had a lot of fun making this level! there's even a 'reset button' that only appears if you play the game on maximum difficulty... and if you shoot it - well it resets the CPC!

Now, I don't want to spoil the plot of the game, so I won't tell you what the last boss is!... I had previously decided i wanted it to have multiple 'forms' this was because I wanted to use the CPC's 128-512k extra memory for full-screen animation... this would make supporting the lowly 64k system very tough.
I needed the visuals to be really good, but the playability not to change, I also wanted a tough battle, as the first games last boss was too easy.

I decided to make the last boss only harmable during one stage of battle - I could have the boss as a sprite at that stage, so it would play fine on 64k systems where compiled sprites were impossible.

I could only have 3 compiled sprites on 128k systems (There were 21 on 256!)... the first stage was partially conventional sprites, and partially compiled... and the final stage had a pre-rendered 3D looping animated background (I got the idea from the NeoGeo game Blazing Star)

The last boss also re used the 'Omega Array' code, this time with the bullets streaming in from the edges of the screen... it was this time we saw the power of the Omega Code - in this configuration there were so many bullets onscreen it was basically impossible to avoid them without using smart bombs... 
and that's how you get the level 5 unlock! Never use a smart-bomb during the last boss battle!

With Level 5 done, it was now time to start the introduction routines, and planning the release!