I had already decided that Episode 2 needed a more clear direction, with less generic level design, and better story - As Ep1 took 6 months I had plenty of time to think about it.

EP2 would introduce Chibiko's Brother Bochan (Bocchan is slang for 'young boy' in Japanese - and the Kanji I use for BO is 'grave' - as the character is a ghoul)
Originally I had planned that he would be the main character of EP2... but I felt that if both characters were equally rebellious and strong willed they would not work well together, so I changed my plan and ended up with Chibiko as the main character - and her brother as the 'dumb sidekick'.

The source of the plot developlment for Episode 2 was to be the two new characters... I needed some new characters to act as rivals for Chibiko, and I thought it would be good to have some 'good' characters to confront her (They didn't stay good for long though)...

I wanted to keep the games gender split relatively equal, so having a brother and sister duo of Hero's worked for me - their surname 'Yuusha' literally translates to 'hero' in Japanese.

The idea for their personalities was that they were trying to live out the 'fantasy' games children might play, Their outfits are supposed to be an ill fitting combination of each of their two themes... Although the new characters are supposed to be the Akumas' arch rivals, they are supposed to represent the 'kids next door' so to speak, who although they don't like to admit they have anything in common, and constantly get into fights, they are actually friends...

Yumi's (male) personality is based around scifi and fighting. His levels are 1 and 3
Yume's (Female) personality is based on Fantasy and the Occult. Her levels are 2 and 4 

Originally the hero's were going to be pretty legitimate good guys, but I decided that it would be too stale, and I wanted more crazy characters, so I made them more warped - turning Yumi into a victory hungry nut-job, and Yume a scam-artist 'spiritualist'... I wanted the fantasy level to have a 'Magical Girl' boss, so I added 'Sakuya' as my 5th Chibi Character (Who is an obvious parody of Card Captor Sakura)... I plan to use all the characters agian in any future games, and add a few more along the way!

Having a more interesting theme for the first four levels made coming up with new enemies and stylish background easier... although it meant a step away from the gothic theme, I felt it was worth it for the new variety... the fifth level would be a mixture of all four levels - and I had a secret idea planned for that which I had thought of while making EP1

The new levels would have much better backgrounds, and I could now use bigger and better animated sprites, Knowing that I could certainly write a finished game, this time I could push the engine to the absoulte limit!

To be continued....!