    ChibiAkumas Key and Joystick reading has two stages,

1. The hardware stage
    This is different depending on the hardware platform, but essentially is
pretty similar...
    The process for getting data is to send the 'line number' you want to the IO
hardware, then read in the result.
    The programe connects to each data line of the systems keyboard, and reads
that line into a buffer, if there are any joysticks, these are read in too...
the data in this buffer is 'reversed'... if a key is pushed down, it's bit will
be 0 ... if it is not, it will be 1... in some hardware cases bits have to
inverted to ensure this standard is met.

    On the CPC, the Joysticks are part of the Keyboard Matrix. On the Spectrum,
most joysticks map to keys, but the Kempson is a special case, the MSX has 2
joysticks that need special reading. On the Enterprise they are actually on a
separete 'Port', and there seem to be 2 (or more) undocumented fire buttons!

    Because each system has a different number of 'Lines' The resulting buffer
size varies depending on the system

2. The software stage
    This processes the buffer, and converts it to a single byte for each player
- where each bit relates to 1 of the 8 controls... because there are 2 players,
there are 2 such bytes

    Once the hardware has been scanned, and the key results stored into the
buffer, each line of the buffer is compared to the Keymap.
    This 'Keymap' is the 8 defined controls of each player (U D L R Fire1 Fire2
Fire3 Pause) each defined control has a 'Row' and a "Bitmask'
    For each entry in the keymap, the program checks that 'row' number in the
buffer, and if the bitmask matches the hardware state, that button's bit is set
to 1... this is done by ORing the bitmask with the buffer content - if the
result is not 255 then that key must be 'down'
    There is a 'Quick scan' routine which does this whole procedure, and returns
the result of this is returned in two bytes  IXL for player 1, and IXH for
player 2... if you just need to see if any key of any player is down, you can
just 'AND' both these bytes together, and if the result is less than 255, one
of the defined controls is down!

    If you need to check 'real keys' (eg letters rather than 'defined keys') you
have to go to the 'buffer'... But of course what the bits mean in the buffer is
totally platform dependent, so ChibiAkumas only does if for the cheatmode
keypress, and define keys routine!
